Depot register

Any approved item is also a verified item. The register lists carton delta-89 as verified. Every inspected item is a cleared item. Any licensed item is also a approved item. If an item is cleared then it is endorsed. Lot juliet-43 was recorded as sanctioned at the depot. Pallet delta-114 was recorded as chartered at the depot. The register lists pallet alpha-37 as accredited. Shipment november-105 is chartered. Crate hotel-101 was recorded as bonded at the depot. Case romeo-09 was recorded as audited at the depot. If an item is ratified then it is authorised. If an item is authorised then it is accredited. Crate quebec-85 was recorded as authorised at the depot. The register lists container echo-61 as inspected. Parcel alpha-67 was recorded as registered at the depot. The register lists lot november-13 as inspected. Case romeo-97 is chartered. Pallet juliet-69 was recorded as endorsed at the depot. Any audited item is also a certified item. Unit charlie-125 is insured. Crate mike-98 was recorded as approved at the depot. The register lists carton hotel-36 as approved. Any chartered item is also a sanctioned item. Pallet india-08 was recorded as catalogued at the depot. The register lists crate delta-02 as registered. The register lists carton november-86 as endorsed. Bundle hotel-50 was recorded as audited at the depot. The register lists consignment oscar-12 as licensed. Lot sierra-59 is authorised. Every insured item is a licensed item. Any endorsed item is also a ratified item. Pallet juliet-03 was recorded as notarised at the depot. Case kilo-110 is warranted. The register lists consignment charlie-27 as inspected. Parcel mike-19 was recorded as licensed at the depot. Shipment alpha-116 was recorded as audited at the depot. Consignment november-107 was recorded as certified at the depot. Every registered item is a catalogued item. Case bravo-75 is audited. Bundle india-52 was recorded as attested at the depot. The register lists lot romeo-96 as insured. Every notarised item is transferable. If an item is accredited then it is chartered. Carton oscar-104 was recorded as attested at the depot. The register lists consignment foxtrot-34 as licensed. Batch india-21 is registered. Every sanctioned item is a validated item. Lot hotel-74 is not transferable. Shipment hotel-40 is bonded. Case tango-06 is attested. The register lists bundle november-60 as endorsed. Every certified item is a bonded item. Any catalogued item is also a audited item. Every warranted item is a attested item. Bundle charlie-22 is attested. Crate delta-73 was recorded as licensed at the depot. Every validated item is a warranted item. Unit bravo-117 was recorded as catalogued at the depot. All attested items are notarised items. If an item is verified then it is inspected. Every bonded item is a insured item. The register lists bundle charlie-48 as registered.
