Interpersonal Relations: Ownership and Aggression

We have so far been discussing the free society, the society of
peaceful cooperation and voluntary interpersonal relations. There
is, however, another and contrasting type of interpersonal
relation: the use of aggressive violence by one man against another. What
such aggressive violence means is that one man invades the property of
another without the victim's consent. The invasion may be against a man' s
property in his person (as in the case of bodily assault), or against his
property in tangible goods (as in robbery or trespass). In either case, the
aggressor imposes his will over the natural property of another-he
deprives the other man of his freedom of action and of the full exercise
of his natural self-ownership.
Let us set aside for a moment the corollary but more complex case
of tangible property, and concentrate on the question of a man's ownership rights to his own body. Here there are two alternatives: either we
may lay down a rule that each man should be permitted (i.e. have the
right to) the full ownership of his own body, or we may rule that he
may not have such complete ownership. If he does, then we have the
libertarian natural law for a free society as treated above. But if he
does not, if each man is not entitled to full and 100 percent self-ownership, then what does this imply? It implies either one of two
conditions: (1) the "communist" one of Universal and Equal Other-ownership, or (2) Partial Ownership of One Group by Another-a system of rule by one class over another. These are the only logical alternatives to a state of 100 percent self-ownership for all.1
Let us consider alternative {2); here, one person or group of persons,
G, are entitled to own not only themselves but also the remainder of
society, R. But, apart from many other problems and difficulties with
this kind of system, we cannot here have a universal or natural-law ethic
for the human race. We can only have a partial and arbitrary ethic, similar
to the view that Hohenzollerns are by nature entitled to rule over
non-Hohenzollerns. Indeed, the ethic which states that class G is entitled
to rule over Class R implies that the latter, R, are subhuman beings who do not have a right to participate as full humans in the rights of self-ownership enjoyed by G-but this of course violates the initial assumption that we are carving out an ethic for human beings as such.
What then of alternative (1)? This is the view that, considering
individuals A, B, C ... , no man is entitled to 100 percent ownership of his
own person. Instead, an equal part of the ownership of A's body should
be vested in B, C ... ,and the same should hold true for each of the
others. This view, at least, does have the merit of being a universal rule,
applying to every person in the society, but it suffers from numerous other difficulties.
In the first place, in practice, if there are more than a very few people
in the society, this alternative must break down and reduce to Alternative
(2), partial rule by some over others. For it is physically impossible for
everyone to keep continual tabs on everyone else, and thereby to exercise
his equal share of partial ownership over every other man. In practice,
then, this concept of universal and equal other-ownership is Utopian
and impossible, and supervision and therefore ownership of others necessarily becomes a specialised activity of a ruling class. Hence, no society
which does not have full self-ownership for everyone can enjoy a universal ethic. For this reason alone, 100 percent self-ownership for every man
is the only viable political ethic for mankind.
But suppose for the sake of argument that this Utopia could be sustained. What then? In the first place, it is surely absurd to hold that no
man is entitled to own himself, and yet to hold that each of these very
men is entitled to own a part of all other men! But more than that, would
our Utopia be desirable? Can we picture a world in which no man is
free to take any action whatsoever without prior approval by everyone
else in society? Clearly no man would be able to do anything, and the
human race would quickly perish. But if a world of zero or near-zero
self-ownership spells death for the human race, then any steps in that
direction also contravene the law of what is best for man and his life
on earth. And, as we saw above, any ethic where one group is given
full ownership of another violates the most elemental rule for any
ethic: that it apply to every man. No partial ethics are any better, though
they may seem superficially more plausible, than the theory of all-power-to-the-Hohenzollerns.
In contrast, the society of absolute self-ownership for all rests on
the primordial fact of natural self-ownership by every man, and on
the fact that each man may only live and prosper as he exercises his
natural freedom of choice, adopts values, learns how to achieve them,
etc. By virtue of being a man, he must use his mind to adopt ends and
means; if someone aggresses against him to change his freely-selected course, this violates his nature; it violates the way he must function. In
short, an aggressor interposes violence to thwart the natural course of a
man's freely adopted ideas and values, and to thwart his actions based
upon such values.
We cannot fully explain the natural laws of property and of violence
without expanding our discussion to cover tangible property. For men
are not floating wraiths; they are beings who can only survive by grappling with and transforming material objects. Let us return to our island
of Crusoe and Friday. Crusoe, isolated at first, has used his free will and self-ownership to learn about his wants and values, and how to satisfy them by transforming nature-given resources through "mixing" them with his labor. He has thereby produced and created property. Now suppose that Friday lands in another part of this island. He confronts two possible courses
of action: he may, like Crusoe, become a producer, transform unused soil by his labor, and most likely exchange his product for that of the other man. In short, he may engage in production and exchange, in also creating
property. Or, he may decide upon another course: he may spare himself
the effort of production and exchange, and go over and seize by violence
the fruits of Crusoe's labor. He may aggress against the producer.
If Friday chooses the course of labor and production, then he in natural fact, as in the case of Crusoe, will own the land area which he clears
and uses, as well as the fruits of its product. But, as we have noted above,
suppose that Crusoe decides to claim more than his natural degree of
ownership, and asserts that, by virtue of merely landing first on the island,
he "really" owns the entire island, even though he had made no previous
use of it. If he does so, then he is, in our view, illegitimately pressing his
property claim beyond its homesteading-natural law boundaries, and if
he uses that claim to try to eject Friday by force, then he is illegitimately
aggressing against the person and property of the second homesteader.
Some theorists have maintained-in what we might call the
"Columbus complex" -that the first discoverer of a new, unowned island
or continent can rightfully own the entire area by simply asserting his
claim. (In that case, Columbus, if in fact he had actually landed on the American continent-and if there had been no Indians living there--could
have rightfully asserted his private "ownership" of the entire continent.)
In natural fact, however, since Columbus would only have been able
actually to use, to "mix his labor with," a small part of the continent, the
rest then properly continues to be unowned until the next homesteaders
arrive and carve out their rightful property in parts of the continent.

Let us turn from Crusoe and Friday and consider the question of a
sculptor who has just created a work of sculpture by transforming clay
and other materials (and let us for the moment waive the question of property rights in the clay and the tools). The question now becomes: who
should properly own this work of art as it emerges from the fashioning
of the sculptor? Once again, as in the case of the ownership of people's
bodies, there are only three logical positions: (1) that the sculptor, the
"creator" of the work of art, should have the property right in his creation;
(2) that another man or group of men have the right in that creation, i.e.
to expropriate it by force without the sculptor's consent; or (3) the "communist" solution-that every individual in the world has an equal, quotal right to share in the ownership of the sculpture.
Put this starkly, there are very few people who would deny the
monstrous injustice in either a group or the world community seizing
ownership of the sculpture. For the sculptor has in fact "created" this
work of art-not of course in the sense that he has created matter, but
that he has produced it by transforming nature-given matter (the clay)
into another form in accordance with his own ideas and his own labor
and energy. Surely, if every man has the right to own his own body, and
if he must use and transform material natural objects in order to survive,
then he has the right to own the product that he has made, by his energy
and effort, into a veritable extension of his own personality. Such is the
case of the sculptor, who has placed the stamp of his own person on the
raw material, by "mixing his labor" with the clay. But if the sculptor has
done so, then so has every producer who has "homesteaded" or mixed
his labor with the objects of nature.